# DS5001_FinalProject #

In this project, it was my goal to look at the top 5 novels downloaded off of Project Gutenberg within the last 30 days to analyze any resemblance or difference in text structure, wording, or sentiment. These novels included in order: Frankenstein, A Christmas Carol, Pride and Prejudice, The Scarlett Letter, and Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland. These novels are known as classics in English literature, and therefore I wanted to explore their wording to understand perhaps why they are considered classics.

After downloading the top 5 novels in plain text as the F0 source format, a Jupyter notebook in Python was used to extract only the part of the Project Gutenberg text file to include the words contained in the novel itself with no additional markups. The F1 was created including each line of each book. Next, F2 tables were created to extract the initial LIB, DOC, TOKEN, and VOCAB to be used for further analysis. The LIB table includes each book id, title, and file name. The DOC table includes the book id, chapter number, and separates each paragraph in a cell. The TOKEN table parses the text down to each word and uses NLTK to determine the part of speech of each token. The VOCAB table includes each term in the corpus and the number of times the term appears in the corpus.
  
The F3 was created by annotating the VOCAB table including stopwords, stems, and the maximum parts of speech expected for the word from NLTK. The F4 table was created by using the TOKEN table to create a bag of words table. This then allowed for the creation of a document term count matrix and the creation of a Term Frequency Inverse Document Frequency (TFIDF) matrix using the bag of words table. The tfidf summation showed the most popular terms included proper nouns which makes sense especially when looking at classical novels. The tfidf summation without proper nouns indicated the most popular words were nouns. The F5 was create to explore the principal components, topic models, word embeddings, and sentiment analysis.
  
Future analysis could include analyzing the top 10 novels in the list or expanding the corpus to include a novel that may not be considered a classic in the eyes of those well versed in literature. It would be interesting to see how different the novels may get as you move down the top 100 list or if a random novel or scientific journal was added to explore the difference in the sentiment. I am also interested in how this list may change over time, as A Christmas Carol is listed in the top 5 at the moment, however at a different time of year it may not be as popular.
